# COCO Denoiser - Code

We provide code both for **Matlab** and **Python**. Python is used to run the experiments in the Logistic Regression task (Figure 5). Matlab is used for the rest.

---

## Matlab Folder:

- In this folder, we have 6 sub-folders where the code is used to obtain different plots. Inside each folder, if you want to only obtain the plots in the paper, you just need to run the *PlottingResults.m* script (except in the Constraints Tightness Probabilities, where it is enough to run the *Main.m* script; in the *Warm-starting*, where it is enough to run the *Testing.m* and in the *MSEvsDistance*, where the .mat file is not provide due to its size). Whenever you plot those results, the generated figures are stored as .pdf in the same folder. Note that the *PlottingResults.m* plots the results generated by *Main.m*, which are stored as .mat files.
- Across the sub-folders there are some common functions: 
  - *vecnorm_local.m* or *vecnorm.m* - vectorwise norm of a matrix, along dimension d
  - *FDPG.m* - runs the Fast Dual Proximal Gradient method
  - *DualFunctionEval.m* - auxiliary function to FDPG.m, allows to Evaluate the Dual Function for a given s (dual variable).
  - *quad_func* - for a given x, computes: 0.5 x^T A  x - b^T x (which is the objective function).
  - *COCO_Denoiser* - Runs the proposed COCO Denoiser method, which allows the denoising of the oracle gradient estimates.

#### SUB-FOLDERS:
- **Constraints Tightness Probabilities**: run *Main.m* to reproduce the results in Figures 7 and 8

- **MSE for each point**: run *Main.m* to generate *results1.mat* (tighter box), *results2.mat* (intermediate box), *results3.mat* (looser box). With *PlottingResults.m*, the results from Figures 2, 10 and 11 (for this last one, note that the file loaded must be results2.mat) are generated.

- **MSEvsDistance**: run *Main.m* to generate *results2.mat*. With *PlottingResults.m*, the *results2.mat* is used to generate Figures 9 and 12. *isActiveConstraint.m* outputs 0 if a co-coercivity constraint is verified and 0 otherwise.

- **MSEvsVariance in Box10**: *polyfix.m* fits polynomial p to data, but specify value at specific points (used to fix the intercept to 0). Inside each folder (SGD and Co-coercivity) the data is generated and stored as .mat. These variables are used with PlottingResults.m to generate Figure 3.

- **Synthetic Dataset**: again, inside each folder, the data is generated and stored as .mat. These variables are used with PlottingResults.m to generate Figures 4, 13 and 14. 

- **Warm-starting**: run *Testing.m* to generate Figure 6. From the 10th to the 11th gradient step of a first-order method, the dual function evolution in FDPG is recorded when using or not the warm-starting procedure.

---

## Python Folder:

- *fourclass* and *mushrooms* are the two dataset considered (obtained from [here](https://www.csie.ntu.edu.tw/~cjlin/libsvmtools/datasets/)).
- *Streaming Stochastic Fourclass.ipynb* and *Streaming Stochastic Mushrooms.ipynb* are two Jupiter notebooks which run the algorithms and provide the plots required to obtain Figure 5.
- *stochastic_methods.py* is where the different algorithms considered are stored. In this file you can find the COCO Denoiser python implementation.
- *logisitic_linear.py* allows to build the logistic regression problem from the design matrix and labels.
